# Portfolio
## About
My portfolio to showcase my work. Most of it is programs I've written (in either Python or C++), but I've also added some problem sets from the more math-heavy classes in my master's program, to showcase my math background and writing skills. 

## Attribution: 
Everything here is chosen because it showcases my work. Anything here that was not written by me--because it was part of a group project or boilerplate for an assignment--will be clearly marked. Anything unmarked is mine.

## Contents
### 1. Short Programs
This section is for short, stand-alone programs. Usually these were written as a homework assignment for a class I was taking. Everything here at present is Python code from the class CMPT 732: Big Data Lab that I took in the Fall of 2023 at Simon Fraser. As I add more items, I'll separate this out into subsections.

### 2. Space Travel Simulator Project
**Concept** The basic idea of this project is to simulate travel time and fuel-use for a spacecraft making one-way interstellar voyages. All the numbers and calculations provided are as realistic as I was able to make them in a three-week timespan, doing research about largely speculative technology. The assumptions underlying the spacecraft masses and exhaust velocity are based on Nuclear Pulse Propulsion, one of the current most-practical proposals for interstellar travel. That being said, the core of the math is the same Tsiolkovsky Rocket Equation that governs all sub-relativistic rocketry, so the program would work just as well to simulate chemical rockets: all you'd need to do is change the exhaust velocity to a number appropriate for chemcial propellants. I orginally explored the possibility of either a relativistic rocket, or a simulator for trips between bodies within our solar system, but the math for both was a bit more complicated, and I ultimately decided that three weeks wasn't enough time to both review it and turn it into the necessary code.

**Origin** This project was written for an introductory C++ class I was taking at University of the Fraser Valley in summer of 2023. Why was I taking an intro C++ class in 2023? Well it turns out that getting the registrar's office at UFV to recognize classes taken at a U.S. university 9 years previous as counting towards course prequisites is essentially impossible (and then this was all later mooted when I switched to the program at SFU). So after an entire month of hassle I decided just re-taking the prerequisite was easier, and a good chance to get back in practice with C++.

Viewing the course as a chance to practice, it made sense to push the limits of the assignments and projects as much as possible, adding extra features or twists on the concept that let me learn more while still staying within the scope of the directions. This was the farthest I pushed that philosphy, as it was the last project of the class. The requirements were to write a program simulating the fuel-efficiency of a vehicle under various conditions. The default vehicle suggestions were either a car or a plane, with conditions like traffic, wind, travel distance and so forth. I decided a spacecraft sounded far more interesting. I ended up biting off slightly more than I could chew with this idea, but only slightly: the last few days before the deadline were a crunch, and I could have used more time for documentation, testing and organizing the code, but I got all the important bits done.

### 3. Vancouver Housing Analysis/ML Model
**Concept** The code currently in the repo is drawn from a larger project that I worked on with a group of fellow students and SFU during the Spring Semester of 2024. The wider project is described below, but the piece showcased here is a machine learning model whose main goal was to predict future housing price trends in Vancouver (or any city that equivalent data could be drawn from). The secondary goal was to be able to fill in "gaps" in property price data: if you know a bunch of other things about a property but not the price, can the model be trained to predict the price? Most of the actual work on this project was just processing the data into a form that could be used for the ML model: the model itself is off-the-shelf and easy to use. All of the code

**Origin** The larger project this was part of was an analysis of housing affordability trends in the greater Vancouver area. It drew data from a wide variety of municipal sources, which it used to make an interactive map showing housing and property prices for the various communities in the area. The data to build the map was drawn from a variety of municipal websites, using the coding expertise and online detetctive-work of various other group members. The map was set to display data for any year that we'd been able to gather it for. The idea behind the machine learning model is that we also wanted the map to be able to display predicted data for future years. That could have been done easily enough through linear regression over the recent prices or something similar, but a machine learning model would let predictions factor in things like planned improvements, such as future skytrain lines or proposed construction projects: things that wouldn't already be factored into the price data for existing years.

### 4. Virtual eReader Project
**Concept** The idea of this project was to make a simulated version of an eReader (something like an Amazon Kindle). The program was to display an image of the reader including a interface screen with various navigation buttons (that changed based on the menu) and a display screen with the actual text. The intent was for the reader to be able to read from text files, and to build up a library of titles for the user to choose from. Unfortunately time constraints compelled me to leave that functionality unfinished: it has a spot in the menu, but can't actually be used. Instead there's a very small corpus of short passages that can be used to demo the display functionality. I'd eventually like to go back and finish the program to get it to where it was originally supposed to be, but it's a fairly low priority, so it may not happen for a while.

**Origin** This was the other project (and the first one chronologically) that I did for the Introductory C++ class mentioned in the Space Travel Simulator section. The directions were just to make a program showcasing some sort of interactive gadget, which you would draw using ASCII art and which would change somehow as you interacted with it. I never much cared for ASCII art, so the eReader was partly an idea for how to fill the letter of the requirements (and do a greater amount of more-interesting programming) while spending as little time fiddling with the ASCII portion as possible. That notion, and the project as a whole, ended up being a bit of a miscalculation: doing the apparently-simple outline and opening-closing for the reader took quite a lot of fiddling with strings, and coding it so everything displayed correctly within the fixed size of the reader added more headaches. The ideas I had for the functionality of the reader itself proved to be well beyond what I could do in the time provided, and I ended up scrambling to get it to a state that was at least *presentable* by the deadline.

### 5. Written Assignments
**Origin** These come from the courses I took as part of my master's program at SFU. Three of the courses ended up being essentially math classes offered by the CS department: Machine Learning, Algorithm Analysis, and Computability and Logic. I did almost no programming for any of those courses, most of the graded work was proofs of one sort or another. I've picked a few of the assignments to showcase my mathematical reasoning and writing skills, more to be added later. 

All the solutions are entirely my own, of course. While the problems are the same in concept as were given in the assignments, I have written the problem statements, partly for clarity but mostly to make them less likely to show up for students searching the original wording.


